Paratrooper


Unlocking units is a story event. Locking units is also a story event.
Story events are only available to the main three factions
You can trigger story events off of the completion of LUA functions, and vice versa. Usually EAWX story LUA scripts are used to trigger story events relating to dummy constructions
Though you can use story events to check for the construction of dummy objects and also delete them. Presumably LUA is more reliable or offers finer control or something.
If you want to see examples of unit locks and unlocks, there should be a series of XML documents for TR with universal lock in the name
That script controls how the new class ships for the new Republic are unlocked and the old ships are locked on certain era transitions
- Mord -



Dark Acolytes are Dark Jedis who joined the Confederacy of Independent Systems and directly serve its Head of State, Count Dooku. They served various roles from assassins to spies to civilian commanders. Although trained by Dooku, they are not considered to be Sith due to the Rule of Two.


CT-55/11-9009, known as Jai'galaar or Jag, was a clone pilot captin in the Clone Army. Originally a Clone Commander, he was demoted to captain after the Retreat at Katraasii.
Later, Jedi General Plo Koon drafted the captin as the test pilot for the new ARC-170 starfighters and flew with him on many battles including the battle over Cato Neimoidia.


The Pelta-class frigate is locked until the Malevolence is destroyed.  The older C-Class frigate will act as its replacement.

Only for the duration of this campaign, Open Circle Fleet Venators are default, only buildable Venators without build limits. 

Admiral Kilian:  My days of fighting are nearly over.  I have decided to retire on Anaxes and train young cadets for a career in the military. 
[Shoan Kilian has retired from the Republic Command Staff]
Republic Intelligence Officer:  I regret to report that Captain Martz has been declared KIA 
after a commando team found the Prosecutor had been commandeered by Trandoshan mercenaries.  
[Stinnet Martz has been removed from the Republic Command Staff]
Rear Admiral Tenant:  Reports indicate that Admiral Dao's fleet was dead on arrival.  I have been tasked with taking over his forces.  
[Nils Tenant (Venator) has been added to the Republic Command Staff]

The gargantuan A6 Juggernaut serves as a well armed and armored superheavy vehicle, significantly larger than the A5 Juggernaut it succeeded. 
The unit is capable against a variety of targets with its laser cannons and missile launchers.

A prototype of the A6 Juggernaut, it is rather well armed and armored than its predecessor, the A5 Juggernaut. Though stripped down version of the final product, it is still capable of handling large enemies on it own.